only fans has created a situation where
there's essentially like it's not just a
passive consumer anymore right you're
actually like forming some kind of
relationship with the content creator
so
i'm addicted to finn dom and only fans
i'm a 27 year old virgin male i've been
addicted to porn since i was 13. i just
recently found out about nofap a few
weeks ago and have been trying to turn
my life around but i'd say four months
ago one of the girls i subscribed to on
only fans said i should try findom to
see if i liked it
and long story short i somehow got
addicted to find dom and i can't stop
i've probably wasted over 3 500 on finn
dom and only fans since then
i sometimes feel like i can't get out of
this addiction because it's so easy for
me to get triggered and lose control
i'm not sure if many of you are familiar
with findon but it's basically
humiliating men for money
i'm not sure how i got into it the few
girls i have interacted with in the past
over text and in real life of laughed
and made fun of me because i'm short and
still a virgin
i've had a bad experience with women all
my in my life and sometimes i feel like
no woman would ever want me
i'm thinking these reasons could be the
root of this addiction what do you all
think i know this might sound weird but
i really wanted i just wanted to inform
people to do not try finn dom it's way
worse than just porn addiction and it's
depressing
i really need someone to encourage me to
abstain from this
and i'd appreciate it if someone could
okay
so the first thing is that this is a
post from the nofap subreddit which i
think can be a good subreddit for people
to kind of get support so we also want
to you know it's not from our subreddit
but there are a couple of things i i
really like this post because i think it
highlights a couple of really important
issues that we're facing right now
so the first is that pornography is
evolving
i know it's kind of scary but like
so what used to be simple pornography is
now evolving to
take advantage of so many other
psychological vulnerabilities and like
neuroscientific niches
so we had pornography back in the day
right and we know that there's like
different kinds of pornography that
people would get into
but what we started to create now in
sort of the realm of pornography are
some of these other like
evolutions and the reason that these
things are evolving is because it's
almost like a darwinian
situation where someone kind of comes up
with a particular idea and then like the
market basically determines selects for
the things that are the most successful
and why are these different things
successful it's because they're taking
advantage of certain psychological needs
that people have
so one example of this is only fan so
why is like only fans so incredibly
successful
i think a big part of it is is simply
that if you thought about pornography
all you could be in pornography was a
passive participant you could be a
consumer right like you couldn't
actually participate you could just
consume the pornography so you can watch
it but there's no interaction there's no
kind of relationship that develops or if
a relationship does develop it's wholly
within your head
and along comes only fans which takes
pornography and then adds an element of
a real relationship to it right it adds
an element of like parasocial
relationships so now it's not just
like a random person that is like you
know triggering some kind of like
neuroscientific response to like erotic
pictures
now it's like i can interact with this
person and even in this person's case
the person on only fans is making
recommendations to me so i'm able to
form a relationship so when you take all
of the things that are addictive and
reinforcing about pornography and what i
mean by that is just like visual imagery
and sounds of like you know sexual
things which activate our brain and like
release dopamine and all that good stuff
allow us to do things like uh you know
calm down our amygdala and and numb out
our negative emotions and like internal
pain so that like old school porn could
do all that
now when you have only fans you have the
capacity to form some kind of real
relationship with this person you can
interact with them they'll respond to
you you can request things sure there's
a price tag for all that stuff but it's
only fans has created a situation where
there's essentially like it's not just a
passive consumer anymore right you're
actually like forming some kind of
relationship with the content creator we
see that parasocial relationship on
twitch as well right so like this is the
way that the internet is is evolving
where people are starting to form
relationships with people online
now do i think that that's wholesale and
negative thing not really because i do
think that like like this is a good
example of we can use this tool at least
in my opinion you're welcome to disagree
for good or for evil the fact that you
can connect to other streamers like so i
still remember you know a lot of people
when we do interviews or when people
watch streamers they'll connect with the
streamer in some way even be inspired by
the streamer in some way um you know
interact with the streamer in some way
and sometimes that can actually lead to
like positive impacts right so what one
thing that i really appreciate the whole
purpose of this stream today is that
people are posting questions that give
me the opportunity to weigh in on things
that are important to you guys so i
don't think that this phenomenon is by
definition bad i think most things in
humanity and most scientific
advancements are tools that can either
be used for good or evil
so let's talk a little bit about finn
dom in this person's particular
situation
so this person kind of says you know
for all of you out there don't try finn
dom because it's way more addictive than
regular pornography or even only fans
and so then the question becomes what
determines whether a particular kind of
pornography or like pornographic
thing is more addictive or less
addictive than some something else
and what i've sort of
found after you know working with a
bunch of people is that there's a set of
psychological vulnerabilities that any
given human being may have and now what
we're sort of discovering is that
there's a an array of different like
sexual or pornographic like
products
that can tap into each of those
vulnerabilities the same is actually
true for like video games because not
everyone plays the same kind of video
game right and so there's a lot of
interesting research that's coming out
of the university of toronto
so they developed this model called
brain hex which basically looks at a
personality analysis
and how certain personalities of people
will actually prefer certain kinds of
video games and so this kind of thing is
also true for like other things on the
internet so some people get addicted to
youtube some people get addicted to
reddit some people get addicted to tick
tock some people get addicted to
facebook right so there's something
going on where there are a lot of
different products and services out
there
and depending on your individual
vulnerabilities or not even
vulnerabilities it could be personality
that's you know
your individual individual
characteristics let's call it that
you're going to get addicted to a
particular thing so what's going on in
this situation and why is it that people
get addicted to finndom so i'm not sure
about this person because i haven't
really interacted with them but in my
experience you know there are a couple
of really really important things at
play here
and the first thing to understand is
that
a fundamental tenet of human psychology
is that validation matters more than
reassurance so let me explain what that
means so when i'm a psychiatrist and i'm
working with someone who's suicidal
what the default human idea is is that
if someone is suicidal you should say if
someone says i have no reason to live
the default response is to say that's
not true you have so many reasons to
live look at how awesome you are you've
got this this this and this
and what we know from a scientific
perspective is that that is not very
effective at reducing that person's
suicidality what is more effective than
that is actually validation so i know it
sounds kind of weird but as a
psychiatrist what i've personally found
to be more effective is to you know when
i sit with a person who's suicidal is to
understand okay like like really listen
to them and say
i can see why you're suicidal because
the truth is that there's there is a lot
of stuff in your life that isn't going
well and i have to actually validate
that i have to start by meeting them
where they're at i don't start by
assuming that they're wrong and
incorrect
i start by assuming or trying to
understand what is in their mind that
helps them come to that conclusion
and the cool thing about offering a
validating perspective is then that
actually makes it more effective when i
say hey i understand that you don't feel
like you have a whole lot of reasons to
live right now but i still i'm gonna
respectfully disagree and i do think
that you have a lot of reasons to live
is it okay if i make my case to you and
so that's actually far more effective
because human beings on a very
fundamental level are looking for
validation and this isn't just about
suicidality like we actually know that
this is a very fundamental part of like
human emotion and like the way that our
human brain is wired so as an example
if you look at studies on kids okay and
if you want to freak out a child
the easiest way to freak out a child is
to have a completely neutral expression
and neutral expressions like
really really freak people out i know it
sounds kind of weird what does a neutral
expression have to do with validation
because a neutral expression validates
nothing so i know it sounds kind of
weird but we know that you know when a
kid stumbles and falls down
if they start crying and they're sad
about it and as a parent what do we do
we pick up the child we say oh no no no
did baby get hurt oh my god poor little
baby it's okay it's okay baby i'm so
sorry you got hurt oh show me where the
boo-boo is let me kiss the boo-boo and
make it better so if you look at that
kind of response it's a very validating
response and it works really really well
when
kids grow up with non-validating
responses they tend to end up with
attachment issues so we have a couple of
videos about that there's some stuff
about that in dr k's guide if y'all are
more interested so these kids grow up to
be anxious and if you look at like so
there's a video on the anxious
personality and some people just have
anxious personalities and those
personalities come from a lack of
validation when growing up
there's also another really interesting
thing about um
you know so there's just kind of a side
note from medicine
so one of my mentors was once telling me
that you know you can have psychosis
which is like hallucinating and things
like that but psychosis is not a
diagnosis it's a symptom so sometimes
psychosis can be caused by schizophrenia
sometimes it can be caused by depression
so how can you tell whether psychosis is
caused by schizophrenia or how whether
it's caused by depression there's a
complex diagnostic process
but there was a really interesting thing
that one of my mentors told me they're
like there's a simple like limbic test
so like it's kind of a way to test your
gut
to determine whether the psychosis
you're seeing is due to depression or
schizophrenia and so what the my mentor
told me is ask yourself this question if
you're sitting across from a patient
if they were on the subway and there was
a seat open next to them would you sit
down next to them
and i know it sounds kind of weird but
it's actually a very very good limbic
test because people with schizophrenia i
know it sounds kind of weird but like
even when you see them on the street
like you kind of like you can sort of
tell and so how is it that your brain
can tell the difference between like
someone who has schizophrenia and
someone who doesn't it actually comes
down to flattened affect so affect is
the facial expression of emotion
and so when people have schizophrenia
their affect gets blunted so their like
face becomes really really neutral and
it sets us on edge because what happens
in our brain is like we don't really
know
what to expect from this person so when
someone like you know when you can read
someone's emotions it actually makes you
like reassured in some way
and so blunted affect flattened affect
and like there's something about them
that just sort of like triggers alarm
bells and makes people uncomfortable it
happens with kids too so if you look at
a kid with a neutral expression
it's going to be very like invalidating
for what they're feeling right because
if they're happy you're not validating
that if they're sad you're not
validating that and it's going to freak
them out
so this is the key thing to remember is
that validation is a very very core
thing that human beings are looking for
so now circling back to the fin dom why
is it that this stuff is potentially
more addictive than only fans of regular
pornography
and if we look at that person's post we
see that this person already has a
confidence issue right i'm five foot
four women will make fun of me i'm a
virgin they even identify in the first
sentence of their post
i'm 27 year old virgin
right it's like
the second attribute even before mail
so like this person identifies with the
idea of being a virgin so this person
identifies with sort of being someone
that is like
going to be rejected by women and along
comes findom which are paying women to
humiliate him right so why would someone
do that why would someone spend more
money than maybe they have or they feel
comfortable with
to have someone treat them like crap
like what kind of reinforcement are you
getting there because it's like it's
creating a negative emotion in them but
it's also highly highly addictive or
reinforcing behavior right so what's
going on there and i think essentially
what's going on is that it's incredibly
validating right because if we have a
particular view of ourself
and someone else like takes that view to
the extreme and they're offering an
extreme form of validation because if
you're a five foot four virgin and you
don't feel like you're a good person and
you don't feel like anyone will ever
treat you well you will actually pay
money to someone to reinforce that idea
with you it's the same reason why we
have cognitive biases for people who are
narcissistic right so people like who
are narcissistic will seek validation
from wherever they can because finding
concordance with the outside world is
really what our brain craves
and so if you have a self-esteem problem
be really really careful because if you
find something that will reinforce
your idea of low self-esteem you will
actually gravitate towards it we also
see this in people who have had abusive
relationships because a lot of people
wonder like why on earth does this
person keep on getting into
relationships with abusive people
and the short answer i mean i'm
oversimplifying stuff it's obviously
more complicated than that but the short
answer is that when people ha when
people have been abused especially when
you have childhood abuse you develop an
identity of being not worthy right and
then something really bizarre happens if
you have that identity of not being
worthy and that like you're not a good
person and you enter into a relationship
with someone who treats you with respect
the bizarre thing is that people don't
feel good about that it actually creates
a ton of anxiety
they don't actually like it what what
happens in the mind of someone who's
been abused who enters into a healthy
relationship is like they get really
confused and they become paranoid
they're like why is this person treating
me this way like what is going on like
when is it going to change like why why
are they saying this to me what's their
game
what are they trying to get i don't
understand this doesn't make sense
because our brain has has developed this
idea of what to expect from other human
beings and when things don't line up it
makes us deeply uncomfortable
the flip side of that coin is validation
right so like if you think about i don't
know if you guys have been in this
situation but you know i remember when i
was in school like and i got bullied
like there were times where i would
engage in being the recipient of
bullying because it like made sense to
me right like because that's my job is
to be bullied like those are the people
who are like the the jocks and the
captain of the football team and i'm the
loser so i'll even engage in situations
that replay that kind of idea there's
also research on this from the psycho
like psychotherapy so there's this idea
called the repetition compulsion which
is like there's some really interesting
papers written about that if you guys
want further reading
but i think that it's kind of
interesting because essentially what's
happening with like these evolutions of
pornography is that there are these
kinds of vulnerabilities and if you have
the vulnerability where you feel like
you are unworthy of a woman's attention
and then you start paying a woman to
give you the kind of attention
that you feel you deserve
it's going to be incredibly validating
and incredibly addictive
so then the question becomes like you
know what do i do about this i don't
think abstinence from the thing is
sufficient so is it a step in the right
direction absolutely
but trying to abstain from an addictive
behavior without understanding the roots
of the behavior
tends to be the recipe for relapse and
we've seen this time and time and time
again like i mean i've seen this as an
addiction psychiatrist where people will
like you know say like okay this is the
last time like i gotta quit i gotta quit
i gotta quit but they don't actually do
the work to figure out it's not about
it's not the fact that you need to quit
what you really need to understand if
you want to overcome an addiction
is not the fact that you need to quit
it's to understand what the addiction
does for you in the first place
what is the addiction doing for you what
is the purpose it serves what is the
advantage that you gain from engaging in
this addiction and once you start to
explore that once you get to the roots
of where the addiction is born from
where it comes from and as you start to
address those things
the actual addictive behaviors will
start to like wither
they're like leaves on a tree where once
you take out the roots the leaves
themselves that's what you see that's
what you experience
they're all they will all start to
automatically wither once you take the
root of the problem out
so if y'all are struggling with some
kind of you know new addiction and i've
seen so many of them
you got to understand that like
this is happening for a reason right
that like the internet is a place where
it allows for a lot of darwinian
selection we see this for video games we
see it for content distribution
platforms and we even see it for
pornography and the kind of pornography
that you get addicted to it's not just
pornography addiction right it's not one
thing there's actually a different kind
of psychological process whether you're
addicted to pornography or you're
addicted to only fans or you're addicted
to finndom or you're addicted to another
thing
all of those things are going to be
working on your brain in slightly
different ways and so if you want to
overcome those specific addictions it
involves understanding what is this
particular manifestation of pornography
doing for me what is the psychological
vulnerability that it's kind of
exploiting and take advantage of what is
it what is it doing for me that other
kinds of pornography don't do for me
and once you understand what those
fundamental psychological needs are then
you can start working on them and as you
work through those fundamental
psychological needs the need for
pornography or whatever you're into will
actually start to reduce
questions
so how do you figure out what your needs
are so that's a really good question
so i'd say that you know so the first
thing is you can definitely work with a
therapist i saw a couple of posts that
people were saying like you know my
therapist was like just masturbate less
i'm sorry you got a therapist like that
sucks
you can absolutely work with a therapist
for pornography addiction there are
people that sort of specialize in it and
things like that
but i'd say that you can even do a lot
of this work on your own right so like
you can just ask yourself like you know
on a given day like let's say you've got
fin dom versus only fans versus like
pornography and you'll notice that
you're gravitating towards one versus
the other
so when you gravitate towards it i know
it's kind of weird but just ask yourself
the question like how does this make me
feel
compared to something else
so if let's say your problem is like
only fans versus like let's say pornhub
okay
and so then ask yourself like what is it
about only fans what do i feel when i
watch only fans that like
what do i feel how is this different
and this is where like meditation can
actually be really helpful i'm not
saying meditation for the purpose of
just meditating then it'll get better
the purpose of meditation is to learn a
systematic way of introspection right so
you like kind of close your eyes and
like you kind of think about pornhub for
a second and then like you kind of like
think okay what is this going to do for
me what feels unsatisfying about it and
then if you look at something like only
fans then like you can kind of ask
yourself the question there too what
feels so satisfying about this what is
it about this that that really draws me
in
and what you'll find is probably
something along the lines of like i feel
noticed here i feel like i have a
relationship i feel a connection to this
person
and then what you kind of tunnel down
into is that okay so like it's not just
pornography it's like pornography plus
connection so what i really want is like
some kind of sexual relationship in
which like i feel connected to the other
person
and once you become aware of your own
needs
that's the first step to actually
overcoming them i do think that this is
where like you know a systematic
approach and also working with an
individual like a therapist i don't know
if this is really
i want to say that this is probably
outside of the realm of coaching so
coaches do have a lot of experience
with people who are you know addicted to
pornography it's like a big part of our
community and at the same time i think
really at that level you may be better
benefited by a therapist as opposed to a
coach but you can always give coaching a
try
um but i think it's just doing good
introspective work right it's like
really looking at yourself and asking
yourself what is it about this that
really attracts me
are all addictions bad yes i'd say so
because i'd say the definition of an
addiction is something that impairs
function so a lot of people in the early
days of healthy gamer would ask me back
when we talked primarily about video
game addiction how do i know if i'm
addicted
and the short answer is if it causes a
problem it is a problem so how do you
draw the line between like a healthy
amount of pornography use or an
unhealthy amount of pornography use if
it starts to cause problems in your life
like it prevents you from engaging in
relationships if it prevents you from
doing other things if you become
dependent on it for emotional like
suppression or emotional coping then
it's a problem so if it causes a problem
it is a problem
um does the addiction go deeper than i'm
lonely and want a girlfriend maybe right
that's not something that i can answer
so this is like what we try to do at
healthygamer is like there isn't a
answer to this question so this is why
like our approach at healthy gamer is
not like and this is what the internet
does right so like the internet will
have like a blog and in the blogger the
person is like here is how you fix this
problem or you'll have someone who's
like you know one of these success gurus
who's like here's the formula to success
it's it's a video course that you can
purchase that's going to be same the
same for every single person out there
because it's a guaranteed formula for
success if you don't like it your money
back guaranteed here's how i make 18
figures a month
you know
it's it's the formula for success so
everyone out there is asking for like
what's the right answer so our approach
at healthy gamer and this is a big
reason why dr k's guide was created the
way that it was dr k's guide is not
linear right
it's like because the idea behind dr k's
guide is that one answer is not going to
work for every person so if you're
struggling with depression
there's going to be clinical aspects of
it and non-clinical aspects of it what
does your depression manifest as is this
a sense like are you depressed because
you've fallen behind are you depressed
because you have protective hopelessness
are you depressed because you grew up in
an environment with conditional love
where your sense of worth is tied to
your accomplishments so you can't learn
how to be happy unless you're successful
so what is the origin of your depression
because for different people it's going
to be different
and this is why what we try to advocate
this is why we answer questions like
this this isn't just like here are the
features of pornography addiction we'll
sometimes do that as well but we try to
answer these specific questions because
the truth is is that pornography
addiction is not monolithic it's not one
disease it's actually a plethora of
different diseases that affect people in
unique ways it's the same reason why
addiction is not one disease people have
a drug of choice right some people get
addicted to alcohol some people get
addicted to cocaine some people get
addicted to marijuana
and each of these substances interacts
with us in a different way the
substances are also a little bit
different because it does appear that
there's a genetic vulnerability to
particular kinds of addiction
unclear whether that's true in
pornography or not but what i really
have seen is that if you want to like
overcome your pornography addiction you
have to take an individual approach you
can use these general principles but
that's why like in dr k's guide like a
lot of his exercises right that's why we
have a coaching program and we started
with the coaching program and then did
dr k's guide second because what we
really found is that to create
substantive change in your life
you need a personal approach there isn't
a formula to success there's just your
formula to success your challenges your
genetic makeup your circumstances your
living conditions your traumatic
experiences your strengths the things
that you're good at the things that
you're passionate about the things that
you're inspired
by
all of those are highly individual so if
you want to put your life together it
involves understanding all of those
factors
you know a walkthrough only works if
everyone has the same is if everyone is
playing the same game and starts from
the same location you guys get that the
only reason we can have a stock
walkthrough on the internet
is because everyone spawns in the same
place in a video game you can't create a
walkthrough when there are a thousand
different spawn points it's impossible
so this is the big problem is that like
everyone out there is giving stock
solutions
to shared problems but it's been my
experience and i may be heavily
influenced because i'm a clinician right
so i tend to work with individuals is
that if you want to put together your
life you can't use a stock solution you
have to use an individual solution
so going back to am i does it does the
addiction go deeper than em i am lonely
and want a girlfriend it could
right but for some people getting a
girlfriend will be enough for some
people engaging in a relationship that
offers authentic connection and has a
sexual component will
definitely help reduce the porno the
pornography use or whatever
and for some people it may be
insufficient right because for some
people who get a girlfriend we've heard
this a lot by the way
that once you get a girlfriend like the
pornography becomes really weird and you
get filled with guilt because you're
watching pornography because your brain
is habituated to it right so it's not
just like it's not a psychological
vulnerability at some point it gets
becomes a habit so now if i'm habitually
addicted to pornography and i start
having a relationship with a woman
i will feel guilty because like i have
these habits this habit circuitry that
causes me to still watch pornography
because you can't drop it like a you
know can't drop it like that
and then once i feel guilty then what
that guilt does is pushes me more
towards pornography because there's good
evidence that pornography is used as an
emotional coping mechanism so the more
guilty you feel the more pornography you
watch the more pornography you watch the
more guilty you feel because you've got
a girlfriend and then you don't want to
tell her and then at some point she
finds out and then you're embarrassed
and she feels upset she feels like she's
not enough for you she gets concerned
that you're she's not enough for you and
then she starts crying and then you feel
even guilty and it's back to the porno
it's like it's a whole vicious cycle
right and it comes down to understanding
what is the pornography doing for you
is it a source of emotional coping and
once you understand that then you can
hopefully have a conversation with her
and you can have a conversation with
your girlfriend and it's like
you know hey like i've been doing this
for a long time like i really value you
i care about you you know i find our
sexual relationship to be gratifying
and
you know it's something that i'm working
on
like and then like it's about also about
like communications and asking questions
right it's about asking your girlfriend
how do you feel when i watch pornography
how does it make you feel when i do this
are you okay with it are you not okay
with it is it okay that like i don't
like it actually is it okay if i share
that
right so it's about
communication it's about understanding
these are the bedrocks that we try to
like instill in people in healthy gamer